i'm kyle tutt and we have
matt ober as well co-founders and uh of
pinata we are the easiest way to use
ipfs
and i wanted to thank the protocol labs
team for putting together this great
meetup to celebrate another successful
year
in the ipfs ecosystem
and i definitely think we can say that
2020 was successful year for ipfs
it's great to see amazing teams like
textile three box bertie and fleek push
the boundaries of what ipfs is capable
of and then gain
uh you know mainstream adoption when
matt and i had started pinata in late
2018 we had this belief
that ipfs would be adopted more and more
by applications that understood its
unique value proposition
so it comes to uh so it comes with no
surprise to us that this ecosystem
is thriving uh supporting more and more
teams
like the ones mentioned earlier and
bringing in users at an amazing rate
we look forward to continued success for
ipfs as we move
into 2021. as for pinata
our year tracked very similarly uh to
the ipfs space in general
we will end the year with more than 8
000 developers and creatives building
with pinata
and we had a 1700 increase in pins
on our system uh which is was amazing to
see
uh the developers and creatives building
with pinata are split
almost perfectly 50 crypto focused and
then 50
non-crypto focused on the crypto side
d5 applications and nfts use pinata for
its immutable content address pins while
on the non-crypto side we have websites
videos
and more choosing to use ipfs to deploy
and share
content easier from a product standpoint
in 2020 we stayed true to
being the easiest way to use ipfs
throughout the year we spent a lot of
time behind the scenes
implementing improvements to make sure
that our infrastructure was
fast and reliable at the end of the day
all of the
growth ipfs has seen in 2020 means it
has to be able to scale more and more
and we are always happy to tackle those
challenges
in march we released regions and
replications which allowed our users to
replicate their content
on ipfs nodes multiple times in multiple
different regions
this gave our users better control to
add speed and
redundancy to whatever they were pinning
and then we spent the rest of the year
working with our users trying to figure
out
um you know what was most important to
them so through that discovery process
we found the biggest complaint our users
had
was the fact that we only had one api
key and one api secret
so tonight at 11 pm pacific time we will
be releasing our new feature called
scoped api keys this will allow our
users to revoke keys
add permissions to keys for specific
endpoints
limit the number of times a key can be
used and allow you to
name keys for easy reference
scoped api keys pave the way to an
abundance of new opportunities for
developers
keys can be scoped to individual users
of your application
they can be scoped to specific
functionality you want to unlock
they can use or they can be issued on
the fly for quick one-time
access to features there are so many
things
you can do with these scope keys and you
know we really can't wait to see what
um everybody will build with it uh on
monday
uh we'll release a more in-depth blog
detailing what we think is possible with
our new scoped api key feature
and then over the coming weeks we will
release tutorial blogs
detailing examples again we can't wait
to see what you build with it
moving into 2021 we will maintain our
focus on speed and reliability at scale
we recently hired two new members to the
team uh justin hunter
uh formerly of simple id and graphite
and
a bunch of other cool stuff that he's
built over time and then justin
ehler i won't detail out today what we
have planned for them to build
but we expect to create easier and
easier ways
for applications to build with ipfs at
scale
and so with that i want to thank
protocol labs and the ipfs community
for continuing to be the best community
in the web3 ecosystem
and i can't wait to see what 2021 has in
store for
all of our friends at textile three box
birdie and fleek
and look forward to next year's 2021
ipfs wrap up